# Writeup
---
**CarND-PID-Control-Project**

The goals / steps of this project are the following:

* Implement a PID controller in C++ to maneuver the vehicle around the track.

## [Rubric](https://review.udacity.com/#!/rubrics/1972/view) Points

#### Here I will consider the rubric points individually and describe how I addressed each point in my implementation.  

---

### Compilation

#### 1. Your code should compile.

My code can be compiled without errors with cmake and make.

### Implementation

#### 2. The PID procedure follows what was taught in the lessons.

Sure, I implemented the PID algorithm procedure taught in the lessons.

### Reflection

#### 3. Describe the effect each of the P, I, D components had in your implementation.

* The P parameter is proportional to cross-track error term and determines how fast the control system response to the cross-track error. This parameter can help steer the car rapidly towards the road centerline. But a much larger P parameter will cause overshooting problem and the car will be unstable.

* The I parameter tries to eliminate the system bias(the residual in steady state). The system bias may be generated by possible rocks and wind or systematic error of the steering system.

* The D parameter is proportional to the rate of change of the cross-track error. Using this derivative term, the vehicle can avoid overshooting of target trajectory and the stable behavior of the vehicle increases.

#### 4. Describe how the final hyperparameters were chosen.

The final hyperparameters (P, I, D coefficients) were chosen mannually by try and patience. 

First, I only use the proportional parameter, the car can drive following the road curve. But it causes the overshooting problem need to be solved. Then I add the differential parameter to overcome the overshooting. After trying again and again, the car can drive around the track without going out of it. Then I add a tiny integral parameter to eliminate the system bias. 

Finally, the chosen hyperparameters (P, I, D coefficients) is [P: 0.33, I: 0.0003, D: 25.5]. The vehicle can successfully drive around the track using this set of parameters under the condition that 'throttle' parameter is 0.3. 


### Simulation

#### 5. The vehicle must successfully drive a lap around the track.
Yes, I successfully did this. No tire may leave the drivable portion of the track surface.
